---
title: "Work Experience"
description: "Hello! I'm Mahesh Makani, a software developer based in Hertfordshire and London, UK. Here you can find my professional work experience."
---

This is a summary of my professional work experience, and the projects I have
worked on.

## [The Guardian](https://theguardian.com)

#### Senior Software Developer | April 2022 - Present | London, UK

#### Full Stack Software Engineer | September 2019 - April 2022 | London, UK

### Identity Team

#### About

Technical lead on the Identity & Trust team within the Product and Engineering
department at the Guardian. The team manages the authentication and identity
systems at the Guardian, which includes sign in, account creation, account
recover, and user data management.

The team is responsible for the health and performance of the identity system,
ensuring that it is secure, scalable, and reliable. We work closely with the
editorial and commercial teams to provide a seamless experience for our users to
help them get the most out of what the Guardian offers.

During my time on the team, I have worked on a large scale migration from our
in-house legacy identity platform to a hybrid model where the backend services
and data store is provided by a third party identity-as-a-service provider,
while keeping the user interfaces and interactions between the reader and the
Guardian in house. This work is being done to modernise the identity platform,
improve security around reader data, and enhance the reader experience for our
readers.

I've also helped to implement key identity standards with Guardian systems which
include OAuth 2.0, and OpenID Connect, migrating our user facing applications
away from a legacy in-house non-standard authentication system to these industry
standards. This allows us to provide a more secure and reliable authentication
system for our readers, and improving the developer experience for our internal
teams when building new applications.

I also am the top contributor to the
[Gateway](https://profile.theguardian.com/guardian/gateway) project, which is
the full-stack identity portal that facilitates user authentication and identity
interactions between the reader and the Guardian, and allows applications to
authenticate and authorise users using the OpenID Connect standard. Gateway is
primarily a TypeScript, React, and Express.js application, utilising the
Guardian Source Design System components, and Emotion CSS-in-JS library for
UI/design. We use Jest for unit testing, and Cypress for integration tests and
E2E tests.

Alongside Identity related projects, I have also worked on the main Guardian
website, the discussion platform, and contributed to numerous libraries and
services that are used across the Guardian's digital products.

I featured in an 2021
[engineering blog post](https://www.theguardian.com/info/2021/jan/13/a-day-in-the-life)
where I reflected on my career and experience at the Guardian.

#### Technologies/Platforms

[GitHub - The Guardian](https://github.com/guardian)

[TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/), [React.js](https://reactjs.org/),
[Node.js](https://nodejs.org/), [Scala](https://www.scala-lang.org/),
[PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/),
[VCL](https://varnish-cache.org/docs/trunk/users-guide/vcl.html)\
[AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/), [Fastly](https://www.fastly.com/)

## [Net Natives](https://netnatives.com)

#### Software Developer | September 2015 - September 2019 | Brighton/Portsmouth, UK

### Edurank

#### About

Edurank was the source for social media analytics in the education sector.
Institutions use Edurank to view their social activity as well as their
competitors’ to benchmark themselves against the sector. The paid for Enterprise
SaaS version allows institutions to get a deep dive into their data by comparing
their social media metrics down to an hours granularity against any number of
competitors and sectors.

The client side uses Angular JS to build the application which connects to an
API server built using Express.js with a MongoDB database. I am the lead
software developer on Edurank, and worked on the full stack, developing much of
the client and server side, as well as any backend applications such as workers
and databases.

#### Technologies/Platforms

[AngularJs (1.X)](https://angularjs.org/), [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/),
[MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/), [Express.js](https://expressjs.com/),
[Redis](https://redis.io/)\
[Heroku](https://www.heroku.com/), [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/)

#### Other Work

Alongside leading the development of Edurank, I’ve worked on a number of
projects within Natives. Some notable projects are described below.

### [Akero](https://akerolabs.com)

Akero is used by education marketers to convert more student enquires into
enrollments. A unique combination of features that creates the perfect
advertising infrastructure. So we can track and report on all the data that
matters, from impressions to the individual whilst improving conversions through
personalisation and A/B testing.

One of the main components I've contributed to the product is a “Social
Performance Analytic” feature, allowing our users to compare social media
statistics from Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and YouTube for themselves and
their competitors.

#### Netsuite (SuiteScript)

Extending functionality of the [NetSuite](http://www.netsuite.com/) CRM using
it’s
[SuiteScript](http://www.netsuite.co.uk/portal/uk/platform/developer/suitescript.shtml)
platform and integrating that within internal processes.

#### Google Apps Script & AdWords Script

I used
[Google Adwords Scripting](https://developers.google.com/adwords/scripts/) to
improve the workflows of, and provide more information to, our Paid Media
Specialists and Advertising Technicians within our company.

Working with [Google Apps Scripts](https://developers.google.com/apps-script/)
to again integrate internal workflows with the Google cloud infrastructure
(Google Drive/Sheets/Docs etc.), such as creating an app which syncs data
between our CRM and Google Drive.
